you know this is now the end of my time
and could mang I've been here for so
many months and you know this is a
special time in my life I said the end
the letter this gym obviously I can only
express myself imperfectly in Chinese
anyway this gym will become a happy
memory for me you know while I lived in
kunming during this time in my life
studying Chinese this jim was the only
was the only pleasure in my life it was
the only thing I it was the only thing I
had to enjoy you know and it's true in
the original in the original Chinese um
that is a little bit bittersweet at best
you know the the connotations of the of
the particular words that that come
across there was one guy here who you
know he pitched a little bit of a fit he
was he was an idiot I despised them it
was a there was an American guy here he
was one of the other students and I
don't remember exactly how the
conversation started but he said
something to me like but that's why you
love learning Chinese right like but
that's why you want to learn Chinese
something about Chinese being wonderful
and ascribing to me that this is why I
want to learn Chinese I know that's not
why I want to learn Chinese is it I
don't want to learn Chinese at all which
was true then and it's true now this is
not what I chose in life this is in many
ways fundamentally the opposite of what
is chosen like this is everything that I
wanted to avoid being forced on me by
circumstances beyond my control I don't
want to be living in China I don't want
to be learning Chinese I do want to be
studying languages but Chinese is the
wrong language and another conversation
with someone who was a
tibetan and i remember this Tibetan was
talking to me and you know excited about
you know my knowledge of politics in
history but of course Buddhism if you
guys watch the channel you know I know a
lot of a pusson and I had to say this
Tibetan look like I know we have let's
talk about but my whole life is about
avoiding too bad I want nothing to do
with Tibet I want nothing Tibetan
politics I want nothing to do with
Tibetan Buddhism I don't want to study
Tibet this language like you don't get
it like I know I know I know more than
the average Westerner about Tibet i do
obviously way more of you know than the
average Westerner but it's not my
expertise tolerant interest is the
opposite so you know but to come back to
that anecdote you know I remember so
sitting there at the breakfast table
with the other students I just said it's
got a hundred percent bluntly I never
said I don't want to be learning Chinese
at all but I'm born with a Canadian
passport and I'm stuck with it and
because I'm Canadian I ultimately did
not have the option to study any of the
languages I was passionate about
learning I was forced again and again to
sacrifice all of my hopes all of my
aspirations all of my dreams all of my
career plans because of the incredibly
poor quality of the education system in
Canada and the incredibly narrow
possible career paths open to me that
wouldn't be the same if I were born a
French citizen it wouldn't be the same
for born an American citizen or even a
German citizen but because I'm Canadian
I couldn't continue with Lao I couldn't
continue with Cambodian I couldn't
continue with Burmese I couldn't
continue with sin alize I couldn't
continue with ty I couldn't continue
with Cree I couldn't continue with a jib
way and those two I feel the most
bitterly as a Canadian Korean ajiboye
being indigenous to Canada everything I
spent years and years of my life
developing expertise in not even to
mention pally I had to sacrifice and I
had to start with this language that I
don't merely lack interest in
that I actively don't want to learn that
I never wanted to learn that I chose
again and again to avoid learning this
is everything I wanted to avoid in my
life and I've been forced to accept it
that's why I'm living now in China I in
says at the time but you know also I
didn't even want to learn Chinese in
China I wanted to continue in Canada I
was getting a university degree in
Canada but I couldn't do that for the
same reason because of the abysmally low
quality of my education in Canada so
there are a lot of things I appreciate
about Chinese culture there are a lot of
things I appreciate about China it's
always somewhat hilarious to me when
people think i have a kind of glamorized
view of Chinese culture or China because
it's the opposite um but I'm here
learning a language I don't want to
learn doing a job I don't want to do in
a sense developing a career in an area
of expertise that don't want to have in
the surreal circumstances of my slow
motion divorce unfolding in France we
think also my slow motion core case
unfolding in Thailand you know all these
other bizarre things in framing the
situation and I'm sacrificing so much in
my life to learn a language I don't want
to learn and to learn to pretend to be a
part of a culture I don't even want to
pretend to be a part of I don't want to
marry into this culture I don't want to
date in this culture and you know the
guy I'd said this to at that breakfast
he was really offended and he was an
ignorant ass white guy who converted to
who converted to Buddhism to zen
buddhism the worst kind of Buddhism he
was an ignorant ass white boy who
converted to Buddhism and who obviously
had glorified in glamour
notions about Chinese culture and he
took it up with me later to like another
time I went out to lunch with him and he
sat down and he was like well it's very
obvious you don't like chinese like as a
language like you don't think yeah you
want me to lie to you you only to
pretend this is a special or wonderful
language to me it's not that's so it's
just another language and it's in many
ways and especially oh and especially
terrible language and it's not a
language that leads to any kind of a
bright future for me or for my daughter
it doesn't lead to any kind of
employment in Canada it doesn't lead to
any kind of master's degree or PhD or
anything else in many ways here in China
I know day after day I'm digging my own
grave I'm destroying any possibility of
me having a positive future and I would
be earning more money if I got a job at
starbucks or as a waiter or stalking the
store shelves at a grocery store or
doing any other working at a gas station
in Canada rather than what i'm doing
here in china even though what i'm doing
here in China may be more intellectually
pretentious or may seem more impressive
in my resume in some ways so I mean
that's the incredibly grim reality
surrounding and underlining that one
line in that hand written letter that I
gave to the girl the gym today that
during this time in my life you know
going to your gym was my only pleasant
distraction was my only pleasure